I have been teaching Tereza Vavrova throughout her upper secondary studies. I am her mathematics teacher, teaching her in specialised Algebra and Calculus seminars.

Tereza is very active both in math classes and outside of them. Her interest in understanding topics and seeking answers to new questions has always been evident. Her comments regularly demonstrate deeper knowledge of the subject, which is reflected in her excellent academic results. Tereza particularly excels in making interdisciplinary connections, thinking critically, and perceiving subjects from multiple angles. She is able to study in English, comes from a bilingual family, and holds a C1 Advanced certificate.

Tereza’s interest in science is also reflected in her yearly participation in competitions. She has regularly been successful in the Physics Olympiad, ranking around 10th place nationwide. However, she was most interested in the international team competition Fyziklani online. In her free time, she takes part in events organised by universities or educational organisations. She was invited to a workshop in Rez, which was part of a day dedicated to theoretical nuclear physics, and also the Zvaz vedu (Consider Science) event, where she met many inspiring people. She found an internship with Jakub Vicha, who works directly with the Pierre Auger Observatory in Argentina.

Tereza is aware that studying physics requires a deep knowledge of mathematics and computer science. At school she chooses specialised seminars. In her free time she devotes herself to the study of these subjects, reading expert articles, and watching educational videos. 

At school, Tereza enjoyed physics labs, and was also fascinated by the practical side of physics, telling me about the experiments she tried. She attended an optional genetics club and was excited about the opportunity to work in a genetics lab. 

Tereza has many interests outside of school. She plays badminton, cycles, and works out. She is also a talented musician. It was a great experience for me to hear her play the violin at a school concert. She also likes to paint, especially for others. I myself have several of her paintings. She is an admirable speedcuber, solving a Rubik's cube in 12 seconds. For several years in a row, she has been actively involved in the preparation and organisation of school events (e.g., Plejady – a series of specialized lectures organised by students, or introductory courses for new students).

I admire Tereza's motivation to apply her knowledge in practice and to explore the scientific environment in her free time. The above shows her great inner motivation and enthusiasm for her chosen topic. I consider it crucial she is able to bring the things she starts to a successful conclusion. She formulates hypotheses, analyses results, and deduces possible shortcomings in school and extracurricular experiments. She is a team player. She is very responsible in her studies and knows how to manage her time effectively. She is able to not only present and defend her opinions and knowledge, but also discuss them. Sometimes I feel Tereza is too hard on herself and tends to underestimate her abilities. However, over the last school year, it has become clear she is growing into a confident young woman. 

Working closely with Tereza on various school projects has allowed me to get to know her personality very well. She is an exceptional girl with a wide range of interests, she is very open and willing to help others. But what I appreciate most is her ability and desire to work on herself, improve, and fulfill her dreams. She has creative ideas and can get excited about anything new. I am glad to have her in my class; working with her is very inspiring for a teacher.

Tereza has always wanted to study physics abroad. She is very interested in the individual approach to students and the opportunity to study in depth and with understanding a field that really interests her.

